I'm going to show you a safe and
effective way to open an oyster or shuck
an oyster what I have here today is a
Pacific oyster or rock oyster when you
buy an oyster you need to keep it nice
and chilled in the salad drawer towards
the bottom of the fridge and you always
want to store them so they're rounded
side down so if the oyster opens our
tour during the chilling process it
doesn't lose any of its liquid when you
buy an oyster you always want to make
sure that they're really tightly shut if
they're open at all it may be that
they've lost a lot of their liquid and
will be dry inside or the oyster might
be dead to open the oyster I'm going to
be using a shocking knife for a variety
of this type of knife available but this
has got a safeguard handle and there are
a variety of ways of actually opening an
oyster some people choose to open it at
the flat end here the only problem with
that is you may end up with chips of
oyster shell some people choose to go in
at either one side or the other my
preference is to go actually writing at
the hinge at the base of the oyster here
hold the oyster firmly take your knife
twist the knife a little bit using
pressure hold the oyster firmly twist it
so you've got a really good firm grip
and then leave her up or twist the knife
my preference is to lever lever up and
twist to allow the shell to open once
we've done that you can take the knife
and just release the oyster from the top
shell lift that away and we have a
beautiful oyster underneath for serving
classic methods either just on a little
bit of ice squeeze of lemon little
splash of Tabasco or I have some shallot
vinegar a little bit of red wine vinegar
and shops a lot and you can spooned it's
a little bit of that over they need to
be consumed wats you've shocked them and
a fantastic start or first course
you